Add Runbook Example for AWS RDS native backup (#962)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/runbooks/runbook-examples/databases/restore-rds-mssql-s3-database.md

---
title: Restore RDS SQL database from S3

> description: An example to show restoring a database backup file from an S3 bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: An example that demonstrates restoring a database backup file from an S3 bucket.
```

position: 100
---

In the following example, we'll use the [AWS RDS SQL Server - Restore from S3 Bucket](https://library.octopus.com/step-templates/55848421-44b9-403c-b1f0-ba8a84b1f177/actiontemplate-aws-rds-sql-server-restore-from-s3-bucket) community step template.

## AWS Prerequisites

> * An AWS RDS SQL Server Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An AWS RDS SQL Server instance.
```

* A SQL backup stored in an S3 bucket.
* An AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Role to access the bucket.

> * The SQLSERVER_BACKUP_RESTORE option added to an option group on the DB instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The SQLSERVER_BACKUP_RESTORE option added to an option group on the DB instance.
```

For more information on setting up AWS RDS instances for native backups, please see https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/native-backup-rds-sql-server/.

> ## Create the Runbook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create the runbook
```

1. To create a runbook, navigate to **{{Project, Operations, Runbooks, Add Runbook}}**.

> 2. Give the Runbook a name and click **SAVE**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Give the runbook a name and click **SAVE**.
```

3. Click **DEFINE YOUR RUNBOOK PROCESS**, then click **ADD STEP**.
4. Add a new step template from the community library called **AWS RDS SQL Server - Restore from S3 Bucket**.
5. Fill out all the parameters in the step. It's best practice to use [variables](/docs/projects/variables/index.md) rather than entering the values directly in the step parameters:

| Parameter  | Description | Example |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |

> | SQL Server | The SQL Server to perform the work on | mydatabase.region.rds.amazonaws.com |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SQL Server | The SQL Server to perform the work on. | mydatabase.region.rds.amazonaws.com |
```

| SQL Login | The login of the user who has permissions to create a database. | backupuser |

> | SQL Password | The password of the user who has permissions to create SQL Logins | MyGreatPassword! |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SQL Password | The password of the user who has permission to create SQL Logins. | MyGreatPassword! |
```

> | Database Name | The name of the database to restore to | MyDatabase |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Database Name | The name of the database to restore to. | MyDatabase |
```

> | S3 Bucket Name | The name of the bucket (including any sub directories) where the backup is stored | MyS3Bucket/backups/sql |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| S3 Bucket Name | The name of the bucket (including any sub directories) where the backup is stored. | MyS3Bucket/backups/sql |
```

| Backup File Name and Extension | The name of the back up file (including the extension). | MyBackup.bak |

:::hint

> To use integrated SQL authentication, leave SQL Login, and SQL Password blank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use integrated SQL authentication, leave SQL Login and SQL Password blank.
```

:::
 
The step template script will cover the following:

> * Download backup file from S3 bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Download the backup file from the S3 bucket.
```

> * Invokes rds_restore_database stored procedure on RDS instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Invokes rds_restore_database stored procedure on the RDS instance.
```

* Display restore progress by percentage.

> * The task will end when backup file is restored successfully 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The task will end when the backup file is restored successfully 
```
